[#387]: Blog translate what is MemeBattle article (#390)
MemeBattle/monorepo: apps/blog/content/posts/what-is-memebattle.en.mdx

author: 'themezv'
---

## How it all began

In 2017, a group of students from Novosibirsk State Technical University teamed up to participate in an online hackathon.
The hackathon was dedicated entertainment and fun. We created an application (web and Android) with an endless battle of memes. Every few seconds, users saw a pair of memes and voted for one of them.
Players who rated the meme with a majority vote received the internal currency – MemeCoin.
We won that hackathon and received investments for development.

<details className="my-6">
  <summary>First application version screenshots</summary>
  <img src="/content-images/what-is-memebattle/memebattle_v1.png" alt="MemeBattle v1. Screenshow of web application"/>
  <img src="/content-images/what-is-memebattle/memebattle-playmarket.png" alt="MemeBattle v1. Screenshot of application page on google play"/>
</details>

After that, we participated in hackathons for several years. Local hackathons in Siberia (Tomsk, Kemerovo, Novosibirsk) and large ones in Moscow. It was our hobby.

> Meanwhile, we periodically returned to the original idea, but didn't create real product 😢

Author: ```suggestion
Meanwhile, we periodically returned to the original idea, but never created a real product 😢
```

author: 'themezv'
---

## How it all began

In 2017, a group of students from Novosibirsk State Technical University teamed up to participate in an online hackathon.

> The hackathon was about entertainment and fun. We created an application (web and Android) with an infinity battle of memes. Every few seconds users saw a pair of memes and voted for one of them.

Reviewer: The hackathon was dedicated to to entertainment and fun.

> The hackathon was about entertainment and fun. We created an application (web and Android) with an infinity battle of memes. Every few seconds users saw a pair of memes and voted for one of them.

Reviewer: endless?

> The hackathon was about entertainment and fun. We created an application (web and Android) with an infinity battle of memes. Every few seconds users saw a pair of memes and voted for one of them.

Reviewer: Every few seconds, (comma)

> Players who rated the meme with a majority vote received the internal currency – MemeCoin.

Reviewer: Players who voted for the winning meme received an internal currency - MemeCoin.

Author: Непонятно что значит winning meme) Думаю, что непринципиально

We won that hackathon and received investments for development.

<details className="my-6">
  <summary>First application version screenshots</summary>
  <img src="/content-images/what-is-memebattle/memebattle_v1.png" alt="MemeBattle v1. Screenshow of web application"/>
  <img src="/content-images/what-is-memebattle/memebattle-playmarket.png" alt="MemeBattle v1. Screenshot of application page on google play"/>
</details>

> After that we have participated in hackathons several years. Local hackathons in Siberia (Tomsk, Kemerovo, Novosibirsk) and grand ones in Moscow – it was our hobby.

Reviewer: After that, we participated in hackathons for several years. Local hackathons in Siberia (Tomsk, Kemerovo, Novosibirsk) and large ones in Moscow. This was our hobby.

> Meanwhile, we periodically returned to the original idea, but didn't create real product 😢

Reviewer: we never created a real product

Author: почему?

Reviewer 2: `never created` благозвучнее - получится что-то вроде русского "так и не создали"

<InstagramPost publicationId="BaRdqExl35J" description="A post shared by Themezv (@artem_zverev.9)" />

> In parallel with hackathons we have done some education projects. For example, in union with other students, organized IT community AVTF – few meetups by different streams (web development, mobile development, databases, information security, data science). Just so you know, on the first meetup were more than 150 people!

Reviewer: In parallel with hackathons, we have done some educational projects. For example, in union with other students, we organized the AVTF IT community – several meetups in different areas (web development, mobile development, databases, information security, data science). For you to know, our first meetup brought together more than 150 people!

<Image src='/content-images/what-is-memebattle/ITC2.jpg' alt="Photo from first meetup of IT community AVTF" width={1920} height={925} />

> We often discussed about MemeBattle and told to friend. But we could never answer the question "What is MemeBattle". Usually we respond like:

Reviewer: We often discussed MemeBattle and told our friends about it. But we have not been able to answer the question "What is MemeBattle". We usually answer like this:

> MemeBattle – is not a dot on a map. MemeBattle – is people.

> 

Reviewer: still cringe but ok :)

Reviewer: Memebattle is not a place. Memebattle is people

Author: Оставлю тут кринжовый перевод)

<InstagramPost publicationId="BuPCRKrlI4C" description="A post shared by MemeBattle (@memebattle.world)" />

Looking back, I can answer:

> ><b>MemeBattle</b> – small community around few technical projects, where we studied new technologies and approaches. <br /> Also this is the team with which we participated in hackathons and other activities.

Reviewer: Membattle is a small community built around several tech projects that we have used to explore new technologies and approaches. It is also a team that we created to participate in hackathons and other activities.

Author: have used to - использовали, но уже не используем
А мы используем)

Author: а, ну хотя тут в прошедшем времени, ок

## MemeBattle today

> The initial concept of an application centered around battle of memes is a thing of the past.

Reviewer: The original concept of the application focused on meme battles is a thing of the past.

> At the moment MemeBattle is primarily an <b>open community</b> united by common projects.

Reviewer: At the moment, MemeBattle is primarily an open community united by common projects.
We are open to new ideas and projects and are happy to invite everyone to join us.

We are open to new ideas and projects, also we invite everyone to join us.

> There are few projects in development by MemeBattle today.

Reviewer: To date, MemeBattle has several projects in development.

### Ligretto

> <b>Ligretto</b> – dynamic online multiplayer game, where needed to put cards as soon as possible and outperform opponents with reaction and dexterity.

Reviewer: Ligretto is a fast-paced online multiplayer game in which you need to lay out cards as quickly as possible and outperform your opponents with reaction and agility.

url: [https://ligretto.app/](https://ligretto.app/)

> Play with friends anytime – one round takes only few minutes. Our colleagues spend a free time between meetings sometimes)

Reviewer: Play with friends at any time - one round takes only a few minutes. Our colleagues sometimes spend their free time like this between meetings)

### GameHub

> <b>GameHub</b> – online games service. Unfortunately there is only one game so far. But in the ideal future it will be the portal of online games in one ecosystem.

Reviewer: GameHub is an online gaming service. Unfortunately, there is only one game so far. But in the ideal future, it will be a portal for multiple online games in one ecosystem.

url: [https://mems.fun/](https://mems.fun/)

Our lives
We are witnessing a profound transformation in people's lives. Whe world is becoming global and remote.
In the past, we used to have the chance to effortlessly gather with friends or colleagues at a party or in the office, enjoy ourselves, and engage in board games.

> Nowadays, many companies are spread across the globe, making it more difficult to gather around one table.

Reviewer: scattered around the world

GameHub and games within it can facilitate spending time together by playing.

### Blog

> This blog. It's not just MemeBattle team news, but

Reviewer: redundant?

There will be not only news from the MemeBattle team, but also various posts from everyone.

> First of all, would like to share technical discoveries and experience. For example, one of next posts planned as description of using variable fonts research in this blog.

Reviewer: First of all, we would like to share technical discoveries and experiences. For example, one of the following posts is planned as a description of using variable fonts research in this blog.

url: [https://blog.mems.fun/](https://blog.mems.fun/)

### MemeBattle as PaaS

> All our projects deployed to self infrastructure on AWS. We have an established practices and solutions for fast services launch to production.

Reviewer: We have well-established practices and solutions for quickly launching services into production.

### Education

We continue to use our projects for education. New technologies, tools, approaches etc.

> > It's better to try something on real-like projects than read about it a thousand times.

Reviewer: than to read

#### Experience

> Here, you can practice solving problems like on real-life projects. For example, [add localization system to Ligretto](https://github.com/MemeBattle/monorepo/issues/177), so that the language barrier doesn't spoil the gaming experience.

Reviewer: unnecessary comma after here

Or add new features like [leaderboard in Ligretto](https://github.com/MemeBattle/monorepo/milestone/11).

> Also there are smaller tasks that help newcomers take their [first steps](https://github.com/MemeBattle/monorepo/labels/good%20first%20issue).

Reviewer: There are also smaller tasks

> The experience gained from our projects consistently assists me during interviews and in my work.

Reviewer: The experience gained on our projects constantly helps me in interviews and in my work.
And since our repositories are open and projects are publicly accessible, every member of the community has tangible evidence of their experience.
